6.5.  EIGRP Packet Header

   The basic EIGRP packet payload format is identical for both IPv4 and
   IPv6, although there are some protocol-specific variations.  Packets
   consist of a header, followed by a set of variable-length fields
   consisting of Type/Length/Value (TLV) triplets.


   Header Version: EIGRP Packet Header Format version.  Header Version
      is 2.  This field is not the same as the TLV Version field.

   Opcode: Indicates the type of the message.  It will be one of the
      following values:

           EIGRP_OPC_UPDATE              1
           EIGRP_OPC_REQUEST             2
           EIGRP_OPC_QUERY               3
           EIGRP_OPC_REPLY               4
           EIGRP_OPC_HELLO               5
           Reserved                      6      (EIGRP_OPC_IPXSAP)
           Reserved                      7      (EIGRP_OPC_PROBE)
           Reserved                      8      (EIGRP_OPC_ACK)
           Reserved                      9
           EIGRP_OPC_SIAQUERY           10
           EIGRP_OPC_SIAREPLY           11

   Checksum: Each packet will include a checksum for the entire contents
      of the packet.  The checksum will be the standard ones' complement
      of the ones' complement sum.  For purposes of computing the
      checksum, the value of the checksum field is zero.  The packet is
      discarded if the packet checksum fails.

   Flags: Defines special handling of the packet.  There are currently
      four defined flag bits.

   INIT-Flag (0x01): This bit is set in the initial UPDATE sent to a
      newly discovered neighbor.  It instructs the neighbor to advertise
      its full set of routes.

   CR-Flag (0x02): This bit indicates that receivers should only accept
      the packet if they are in Conditionally Received mode.  A router
      enters Conditionally Received mode when it receives and processes
      a HELLO packet with a SEQUENCE TLV present.

   RS-Flag (0x04): The Restart flag is set in the HELLO and the UPDATE
      packets during the restart period.  The router looks at the RS-
      Flag to detect if a neighbor is restarting.  From the restarting
      routers perspective, if a neighboring router detects the RS-Flag
      set, it will maintain the adjacency, and will set the RS-Flag in
      its UPDATE packet to indicated it is doing a soft restart.

   EOT-Flag (0x08): The End-of-Table flag marks the end of the startup
      process with a neighbor.  If the flag is set, it indicates the
      neighbor has completed sending all UPDATEs.  At this point, the
      router will remove any stale routes learned from the neighbor
      prior to the restart event.  A stale route is any route that
      existed before the restart and was not refreshed by the neighbor
      via and UPDATE.

   Sequence Number: Each packet that is transmitted will have a 32-bit
      sequence number that is unique with respect to a sending router.
      A value of 0 means that an acknowledgment is not required.

   Acknowledgment Number: The 32-bit sequence number that is being
      acknowledged with respect to the receiver of the packet.  If the
      value is 0, there is no acknowledgment present.  A non-zero value
      can only be present in unicast-addressed packets.  A HELLO packet
      with a non-zero ACK field should be decoded as an ACK packet
      rather than a HELLO packet.

   Virtual Router Identifier (VRID): A 16-bit number that identifies the
      virtual router with which this packet is associated.  Packets
      received with an unknown, or unsupported, value will be discarded.

             Value Range       Usage
               0x0000            Unicast Address Family
               0x0001            Multicast Address Family
               0x0002-0x7FFF     Reserved
               0x8000            Unicast Service Family
               0x8001-0xFFFF     Reserved

   Autonomous System Number: 16-bit unsigned number of the sending
      system.  This field is indirectly used as an authentication value.
      That is, a router that receives and accepts a packet from a
      neighbor must have the same AS number or the packet is ignored.
      The range of valid AS numbers is 1 through 65,535.

6.6.  EIGRP TLV Encoding Format

   The contents of each packet can contain a variable number of fields.
   Each field will be tagged and include a length field.  This allows
   for newer versions of software to add capabilities and coexist with
   old versions of software in the same configuration.  Fields that are
   tagged and not recognized can be skipped over.  Another advantage of
   this encoding scheme is that it allows multiple network-layer
   protocols to carry independent information.  Therefore, if it is
   later decided to implement a single "integrated" protocol, this can
   be done.

   The format of a {type, length, value} (TLV) is encoded as follows:


   The type values are the ones defined below.  The length value
   specifies the length in octets of the type, length, and value fields.
   TLVs can appear in a packet in any order, and there are no
   interdependencies among them.

   Malformed TLVs contained in EIGRP messages are handled by silently
   discarding the containing message.  A TLV is malformed if the TLV
   Length is invalid or if the TLV extends beyond the end of the
   containing message.











6.6.1.  Type Field Encoding

   The type field is structured as follows: Type High: 1 octet that
   defines the protocol classification:

            Protocol            ID   VERSION
            General            0x00    1.2
            IPv4               0x01    1.2
            IPv6               0x04    1.2
            SAF                0x05    3.0
            Multiprotocol      0x06    2.0

   Type Low: 1 octet that defines the TLV Opcode; see TLV Definitions in
      Section 3.

6.6.2.  Length Field Encoding

   The Length field is a 2-octet unsigned number, which indicates the
   length of the TLV.  The value includes the Type and Length fields.

6.6.3.  Value Field Encoding

   The Value field is a multi-octet field containing the payload for the
   TLV.

6.7.  EIGRP Generic TLV Definitions

                                 Ver 1.2   Ver 2.0
   PARAMETER_TYPE                0x0001    0x0001
   AUTHENTICATION_TYPE           0x0002    0x0002
   SEQUENCE_TYPE                 0x0003    0x0003
   SOFTWARE_VERSION_TYPE         0x0004    0x0004
   MULTICAST_SEQUENCE_TYPE       0x0005    0x0005
   PEER_INFORMATION_TYPE         0x0006    0x0006
   PEER_TERMINATION_TYPE         0x0007    0x0007
   PEER_TID_LIST_TYPE             ---      0x0008

6.7.1.  0x0001 - PARAMETER_TYPE

   This TLV is used in HELLO packets to convey the EIGRP metric
   coefficient values: noted as "K-values" as well as the Hold Time
   values.  This TLV is also used in an initial UPDATE packet when a
   neighbor is discovered.


   K-values: The K-values associated with the EIGRP composite metric
      equation.  The default values for weights are:

                K1 - 1
                K2 - 0
                K3 - 1
                K4 - 0
                K5 - 0
                K6 - 0

   Hold Time: The amount of time in seconds that a receiving router
      should consider the sending neighbor valid.  A valid neighbor is
      one that is able to forward packets and participates in EIGRP.  A
      router that considers a neighbor valid will store all routing
      information advertised by the neighbor.

6.7.2.  0x0002 - AUTHENTICATION_TYPE

   This TLV may be used in any EIGRP packet and conveys the
   authentication type and data used.  Routers receiving a mismatch in
   authentication shall discard the packet.



   Authentication Type: The type of authentication used.

   Authentication Length: The length, measured in octets, of the
      individual authentication.

   Authentication Data: Variable-length field reflected by "Auth
      Length", which is dependent on the type of authentication used.
      Multiple authentication types can be present in a single
      AUTHENTICATION_TYPE TLV.

6.7.2.1.  0x02 - MD5 Authentication Type

   MD5 Authentication will use Auth Type code 0x02, and the Auth Data
   will be the MD5 Hash value.

6.7.2.2.  0x03 - SHA2 Authentication Type

   SHA2-256 Authentication will use Type code 0x03, and the Auth Data
   will be the 256-bit SHA2 [6] Hash value.

6.7.3.  0x0003 - SEQUENCE_TYPE

   This TLV is used for a sender to tell receivers to not accept packets
   with the CR-Flag set.  This is used to order multicast and unicast
   addressed packets.


   The Address Length and Protocol Address will be repeated one or more
   times based on the Length field.

   Address Length: Number of octets for the address that follows.  For
      IPv4, the value is 4.  For IPv6, it is 16.  For AppleTalk, the
      value is 4; for Novell IPX, the value is 10 (both are no longer in
      use).

   Protocol Address: Neighbor address on interface in which the HELLO
      with SEQUENCE TLV is sent.  Each address listed in the HELLO
      packet is a neighbor that should not enter Conditionally Received
      mode.


6.7.4.  0x0004 - SOFTWARE_VERSION_TYPE

           Field                        Length
           Vender OS major version        1
           Vender OS minor version        1
           EIGRP major revision           1
           EIGRP minor revision           1

   The EIGRP TLV Version fields are used to determine TLV format
   versions.  Routers using Version 1.2 TLVs do not understand Version
   2.0 TLVs, therefore Version 2.0 routers must send the packet with
   both TLV formats in a mixed network.


6.7.5.  0x0005 - MULTICAST_SEQUENCE_TYPE

   The next multicast SEQUENCE TLV.


6.7.6.  0x0006 - PEER_INFORMATION_TYPE

   This TLV is reserved, and not part of this document.












6.7.7.  0x0007 - PEER_ TERMINATION_TYPE

   This TLV is used in HELLO packets to notify the list of neighbor(s)
   the router has reset the adjacency.  This TLV is used in HELLO
   packets to notify the list of neighbors that the router has reset the
   adjacency.  This is used anytime a router needs to reset an
   adjacency, or signal an adjacency it is going down.


   Implementation note: Older Cisco routers implement this using the
   "Parameters TLV" with all K-values set to 255 (except K6).

6.7.8.  0x0008 - TID_LIST_TYPE

   List of sub-topology identifiers, including the Base Topology,
   supported by the router.


   If this information changes from the last state, it means either a
   new topology was added or an existing topology was removed.  This TLV
   is ignored until the three-way handshake has finished

   When the TID list is received, it compares the list to the previous
   list sent.  If a TID is found that does not previously exist, the TID
   is added to the neighbor's topology list, and the existing sub-
   topology is sent to the peer.

   If a TID that was in a previous list is not found, the TID is removed
   from the neighbor's topology list and all routes learned though that
   neighbor for that sub-topology are removed from the topology table.




6.8.  Classic Route Information TLV Types

6.8.1.  Classic Flag Field Encoding

   EIGRP transports a number of flags with in the TLVs to indicate
   addition route state information.  These bits are defined as follows:

   Flags Field
   -----------
   Source Withdraw (Bit 0) - Indicates if the router that is the
   original source of the destination is withdrawing the route from the
   network or if the destination is lost due as a result of a network
   failure.

   Candidate Default (CD) (Bit 1) - Set to indicate the destination
   should be regarded as a candidate for the default route.  An EIGRP
   default route is selected from all the advertised candidate default
   routes with the smallest metric.

   ACTIVE (Bit 2) - Indicates if the route is in the ACTIVE State.

6.8.2.  Classic Metric Encoding

   The handling of bandwidth and delay for Classic TLVs is encoded in
   the packet "scaled" form relative to how they are represented on the
   physical link.


   Scaled Delay: An administrative parameter assigned statically on a
      per-interface-type basis to represent the time it takes along an
      unloaded path.  This is expressed in units of tens of microseconds
      divvied by 256.  A delay of 0xFFFFFFFF indicates an unreachable
      route.

   Scaled Bandwidth: The path bandwidth measured in bits per second.  In
      units of 2,560,000,000/kbps.

   MTU: The minimum MTU size for the path to the destination.

   Hop Count: The number of router traversals to the destination.

   Reliability: The current error rate for the path, measured as an
      error percentage.  A value of 255 indicates 100% reliability

   Load: The load utilization of the path to the destination, measured
      as a percentage.  A value of 255 indicates 100% load.

   Internal-Tag: A tag assigned by the network administrator that is
      untouched by EIGRP.  This allows a network administrator to filter
      routes in other EIGRP border routers based on this value.

   Flags Field: See Section 6.8.1.

6.8.3.  Classic Exterior Encoding

   Additional routing information so provided for destinations outside
   of the EIGRP AS as follows:


   Router Identifier (RID): A 32-bit number provided by the router
      sourcing the information to uniquely identify it as the source.

   External Autonomous System (AS) Number: A 32-bit number indicating
      the external AS of which the sending router is a member.  If the
      source protocol is EIGRP, this field will be the [VRID, AS] pair.
      If the external protocol does not have an AS, other information
      can be used (for example, Cisco uses process-id for OSPF).

   Administrative Tag: A tag assigned by the network administrator that
      is untouched by EIGRP.  This allows a network administrator to
      filter routes in other EIGRP border routers based on this value.

   External Protocol Metric: 32-bit value of the composite metric that
      resides in the routing table as learned by the foreign protocol.
      If the External Protocol is IGRP or another EIGRP routing process,
      the value can optionally be the composite metric or 0, and the
      metric information is stored in the metric section.

   External Protocol: Contains an enumerated value defined in Section
      6.2 to identify the routing protocol (external protocol)
      redistributing the route.

   Flags Field: See Section 6.8.1

6.8.4.  Classic Destination Encoding

   EIGRP carries destination in a compressed form, where the number of
   bits significant in the variable-length address field are indicated
   in a counter.


   Subnet Mask Bit Count: 8-bit value used to indicate the number of
      bits in the subnet mask.  A value of 0 indicates the default
      network, and no address is present.

   Destination Address: A variable-length field used to carry the
      destination address.  The length is determined by the number of
      consecutive bits in the destination address.  The formula to
      calculate the length is address-family dependent:

      IPv4: ((Bit Count - 1) / 8) + 1
      IPv6: (Bit Count == 128) ? 16 : ((x / 8) + 1)

6.8.5.  IPv4-Specific TLVs

      INTERNAL_TYPE       0x0102
      EXTERNAL_TYPE       0x0103
      COMMUNITY_TYPE      0x0104






6.8.5.1.  IPv4 INTERNAL_TYPE

   This TLV conveys IPv4 destination and associated metric information
   for IPv4 networks.  Routes advertised in this TLV are network
   interfaces that EIGRP is configured on as well as networks that are
   learned via other routers running EIGRP.


   Next-Hop Forwarding Address: IPv4 address represented by four 8-bit
      values (total 4 octets).  If the value is zero (0), the IPv4
      address from the received IPv4 header is used as the next hop for
      the route.  Otherwise, the specified IPv4 address will be used.

   Vector Metric Section: The vector metrics for destinations contained
      in this TLV.  See the description of "metric encoding" in Section
      6.8.2.

   Destination Section: The network/subnet/host destination address
      being requested.  See the description of "destination" in Section
      6.8.4.

6.8.5.2.  IPv4 EXTERNAL_TYPE

   This TLV conveys IPv4 destination and metric information for routes
   learned by other routing protocols that EIGRP injects into the AS.
   Available with this information is the identity of the routing
   protocol that created the route, the external metric, the AS number,
   an indicator if it should be marked as part of the EIGRP AS, and a
   network-administrator tag used for route filtering at EIGRP AS
   boundaries.






   Next-Hop Forwarding Address: IPv4 address represented by four 8-bit
      values (total 4 octets).  If the value is zero (0), the IPv4
      address from the received IPv4 header is used as the next hop for
      the route.  Otherwise, the specified IPv4 address will be used.

   Exterior Section: Additional routing information provided for a
      destination that is outside of the AS and that has been
      redistributed into the EIGRP.  See the description of "exterior
      encoding" in Section 6.8.3.

   Vector Metric Section: Vector metrics for destinations contained in
      this TLV.  See the description of "metric encoding" in Section
      6.8.2.

   Destination Section: The network/subnet/host destination address
      being requested.  See the description of "destination" in Section
      6.8.4.















6.8.5.3.  IPv4 COMMUNITY_TYPE

   This TLV is used to provide community tags for specific IPv4
   destinations.


   IPv4 Destination: The IPv4 address with which the community
      information should be stored.

   Community Length: A 2-octet unsigned number that indicates the length
      of the Community List.  The length does not include the IPv4
      Address, Reserved, or Length fields.

   Community List: One or more 8-octet EIGRP communities, as defined in
      Section 6.4.
